Cockpit 328 (#768)
cockpit-project/cockpit-project.github.io: _posts/2024-11-06-cockpit-328.md

---
title: Cockpit 328
author:
date: '2024-11-06'
tags: machines, files
slug: cockpit-328
category: release

> summary: 'Add a TPM to a VM, view SELinux content of a file and change permissions for enclosed files'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: 'Add a TPM to a VM, change permissions for enclosed files, and view SELinux content of a file'
```

---

Cockpit is the [modern Linux admin interface](https://cockpit-project.org/).
We release regularly.

Here are the release notes from cockpit-machines 323 and cockpit-files 11:

> ## Machines: Action to add a TPM
> 
> This can help with upgrading old VMs to a newer guest OS that requires a TPM, such as Windows 11.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Machines: TPM improvements

Existing VMs using EFI but that do not have a TPM now have a menu action to add a TPM. This is especially useful for upgrading older VMs which have OS requirements that require a TPM, such as Windows 11.

Creating new VMs using EFI will automatically have a TPM created and configured.
```

![tpm_kebab]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/328-machines-action-to-add-a-tpm.png)

> ## Files: Change permissions for enclosed files
> 
> The permissions dialog now supports changing the permissions of all enclosed files and directories. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Files: Change permissions for enclosed files

When setting the permissions for a directory, there is now an action to also recursively change all files and directories it contains.
```

![screenshot of change permissions for enclosed files]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/328-files-change-permissions-for-enclosed-files.png)

> ## Files: view SELinux context of a file
> 
> The SELinux context is now shown when right clicking a file or directory and clicking on "Edit permissions". The existing permissions dialog now also includes a read-only view of the SELinux context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Files: View SELinux context of a file or directory

The "Edit permissions" dialog now shows a read-only view of the SELinux context.
```
